Meaning and Definitions of Emotions:
Emotion plays a major role in influencing our behaviour. Life would be dreary without feelings like joy and sorrow, excitement and disappointment, love and fear, hope and dismay. Emotion adds colour and spice to life.

Emotions are feelings such as happiness, disappointment and sorrow that generally have both physiological and cognitive elements that influence behaviour. The word emotion is derived from the Latin word ‘Emover’ which means to stir up’ or to excite’. Emotion can be understood as an agitated or excited state of our mind and body.
“Emotion is a complete effective experience that involves diffuse physiological changes and can be expressed overtly in characteristic behaviour patterns”.
“Emotion is an affective experience that accompanies generalized linear adjustment and mental and physiological stirred up states in the individual and that shows itself in his overt behaviour”.


It is peculiar and, at times, fascinating to observe, how uncomfortable we, human beings, are in wielding that inherent language of ours that we have spoken since the dawn of our species. The language of emotions and feelings. How expressive such language can be in the moments when words become obsolete, how sufficient and how full.
When feelings rise, linguistics fail. A simple shrug can say, so, so much more than a long-winded monologue. Yet, we somehow opt for the latter.
We get lost in the enticing labyrinth of our own words: sometimes lured in there by the words of others, sometimes led there by our “rational” thoughts. Pointedly, it is in their linearity that we get lost: because in trying to explain a complex 3- or 4-dimensional reality, we fall into a culprit of using a two dimensional – linear – tool of linguistics to help us do so. We try to explain, than to live through it. And that is a bizarre and an unnecessary challenge.
Lately, I had found myself stumbling upon my own words — feelings and thoughts riding faster, thus tying my tongue in knots and making me stare up to the ceiling to find just the right expressions. Whether this may well be a reflection of my studying a completely new language — Dutch is structurally very different from English or Russian — that’s causing a shift of my thinking and resulting jarred communication patterns; or a general state of my mind has ramped up its complexity to the point of verbal obsoletion — I do not know, and this isn’t the focus of this short observation (and also, perhaps — it is both). Rather I am using it as a prompt to ponder.
The beauty of emotional language is that everyone can understand it. No matter what culture, what background you’re coming from — there are subtleties that would translate universally — way back — to the fabled Babylonian fiasco. Such language encompasses and exceeds even the commonly known pointers of the body language: turn of the torso alluding to friendliness, wide eyes and dilated pupils — to attraction.
This is about the sensations we get in the presence of one another — people we may have known throughout our lives or those we may have just met. The cold wringing knot of aversion; a strong, almost magnetic pull to stay in someone’s gravitational field; delicate alignment to the harmony of the tone of voice; tunnel vision into the abyss of a soft gaze; the feeling of something being “off”— are just some of the examples. And it is in their inexplicability and blurred edges is where the delight over its universal applicability really lies.



SADNESS
As early as I could remember myself, my memories have been colored with melancholy and sad feelings. Yes, I admit it: I am a person who loves being sad. As a child, I loved gloomy fairy tales; as a teenager, I loved tragic novels and films, which made my parents worry a lot. I realized that I did not meet their expectations: in their ideal world, a happy person must irradiate joy all the time. In my view, this state of constant life enjoyment looked slightly idiotic. And I kept asking myself if sadness is really so bad.

One of the points, which I have discovered, is that people very seldom differentiate between sadness and misery and mistake one feeling for the other, although they are very different in nature. Misery can only be caused by some deeply traumatic experience; however, sadness in a natural middle between being extremely happy and feeling deep sorrow.

Another important issue is that sadness often accompanies the process of thinking, consideration, and evaluation. If, for example, you once watch the facial expression of a person who is writing something deep in thought, you will see that he/she looks sad.

Furthermore, sadness is absolutely natural: almost all our important events in life are colored with it. We feel it when we have to leave a place where we felt good, we experience it when we are happy because deep down we all know it will not last forever, when parents see their children getting married, they are happy, but at the same time they are sad, because their kids have grown up.

So, sadness is positive. Next time you wake up in the morning and realize you feel sad, do not get upset, it only means you are normal and experience the whole range of emotions.